Sometimes it is fun just to open up a simple text editor and just write. There is something so satisying about filling a page with nice typing. It also helps to perfect touch typing skills. Since I stopped trying to touch type, I've gotten alot better at it. I'm honestly surprised with my speed at this current time. The only probably is that I'm moderately inconsistent. Somedays I'm lightning fast and others I'm woefully slow. I do not know why this is but I imagine it has something to do with how tired I am. It is also interesting that some keys just don't 'stick'. No matter how often I type them, they remain evasive and missing from my muscle memory. I want to be the fastest typer by far next year but that requires a lot of practice between now and then. I can type very fast while looking at the board because I can still utilise all my fingers but I can fill in the gaps visually. I want to get that fast using just touch typing though, plus when I look I get lazy and fail to pick up on certain mistakes. I particularly struggle with the difference between I's, O's and U's. Fabulous and similar words are often a nightmare to type at pace. I think this is because these letters are so close and often typed at the same time. Y's are also a struggle. Yes, Yodel, Yam and other words starting with Y are so hard.

I thinks I should just maintain this file as a continue to practice. Maybe each day I could talk about something thats on my mind. Kinda like a blog except pretty contained to my hard drive. Maybe I'll put it on github someday.

### DISCLAIMER:
Don't expect these to be highly cohesive essays, they are more jsut me spewing ideas about what's on my mind. They won't be very structured or even always make sense. I don't plan before hand, I just start writing and see where I end up with it.

##### Date: 30/10/18
#### Angus Vs Science dept: Evolution
I guess for today I'll just talk about the subject of evolution. Which is a subject I've though about a lot lately. Not only because it on our science curriculum but also because I read 'The selfish gene' by richard dawkins. Which is a really great read. The thing that gets me about evolution is just how wild it is that we even exist. We are the culmination of millions of years of random variation. Thats crazy. One thing that bugs my about the way the science department are covering it is that they talk about it in terms of units of change at a species level. Whilst this is probably a better way to explain it to teenagers, I personally don't like how it makes it seem like a crazy system, where as in reality it's more of an emergent property that comes from the propensity of genes to mutate. Emergence is a subject of great interest to me. The way I understand, and like to think about evolution, is that it is more or less innevitable. My mathematically oriented brain proposes that the only thing we need to prove evolution is that genes have the ability to mutate. If we can show that genes mutate randomly, then it is all but obvious that evolution and natural selection would take place. If we look at evolution a gene level (instead of species), we can see why I think this. For example: If there was a gene which lead to developing diseases early in life, it is clear to see that it would quickly disappear. If the animal that possesses that gene develops a disease early in life, it is very likely that it will not have time to reproduce and therefore the gene will not be passed on. Often in science we look at it from the perspective that 'The animal evolved resistence to the disease', when in reality the genes that caused the disease simply died out. Thinking about evolution in these terms also fights away the biggest and most common misconceptions about natural selection. It has nothing to do with any individual, they have no influence over their genetic makeup. I dislike that the science department get so weighed down at looking at subject through the 'scientific model'. It quite frankly destroys any interest a student might have otherwise. By looking at everything with such a dry lense, you kill off our future thinkers. Not everything needs to be examined with a 'hypothesis' (seriously who though that word sounded good) or have to dig deep in the 'evidence'. Most students genuinely want to learn about this stuff. A lot of kids will find it exciting an interesting to think about why. But you insist on enforcing rules and structure on a system that would most benefit from discussion. I know that kids want this, because I've had countless experiences talking to someone about a sunject we are studying in science. I find that if you forget the 'evidence' and 'facts', and simply talk about the system and answer whatever questions they have in an engaging way, they want to listen. I can guaruntee that teachers would be able to draw in their students if they showed the system from the ground up, talking about how it is the exact nature of genes to change. Instead they insist on confusing you with counterintuitive explanations and a barrage of definitions about 'theories' and 'laws'. Indeed there is a lot more depth to which this subject could be explained, but I don't exactly care to explain more here. If someone is indeed reading this, feel free to talk to me about it if you'd like clarification.

P.S If you look at most practical subjects, you'll note their immense popularity. Why are they so popular..? Not just because they're 'fun', because afterall, what makes something 'fun'. They are popular because they are intuitive and tangible. They don't bother explaining why exactly it is that we call 'wood' 'wood' or weigh you down with the 'evidence' that you should do an 'angle join' instead of a standard one. They let you explore within a safe framework. Science really can be interesting to everyone if its talked about right. Like I said, I know this because of the countless times the entire class tunes out from the teacher and start listening to my discussions. They don't do it because I'm some kind of god at teaching, they do it because I don't have to adhere to the 'scientific model', unlike the teachers I have the freedom to share different interpretations. We need more scientists and thinkers in this world, but you aren't going to get them by boring them out of their minds. 

##### Date: 31/10/18
#### The billion dollar bucket of shit
I've only got a very limited amount of time today so I thought I'd use it to whinge about Snap Inc. Snap Inc is currently worth around $8 Billion and yet somehow continue to make the most basic of design mistakes. Lets start with something I just find incredible... Snap calls themselves a camera company. Now, if you knew a company was advertising themselves as a camera company, you'd probably assume that they'd know how to actually implement a camera app properly.. but no. Instead of just intergrating with the iOS and Android SDK's like a good app developer would do, they just open the native veiwfinder and take a screenshot instead, because.. you know.. that will never go wrong. 

##### Date: 2/11/18
#### Optimistic Nihilism
Yes. That title is sort of an oxymoron or wordy bullshit aposiopesis a left wing softie would spout, but it perfectly sums up my world view. Lets break it down.

Part 1: The advent of the reasonable optimist
There are people in this world that are boundlessly happy. There positivity radiates through everyone they meet. They are the kind of person who is so nice it's annoying. I am not one of these people. I find this infinite enthusiasm to be trying and exhausting. I very much tended to lean towards the pessimistic view of the world. But that became tiring too. Instead I looked for something in between. A sensible middle ground that does not blindly charge through life but who seeks positive outcomes for themselves an others. This person is known as the realist. The realist strives to strike the perfect balance between confidence in life and an understanding that not all will be well. I think the relaist is best summed up by a quote from the esteamed William A. Ward:
> A pessimist complains about the wind
> An optimistic wills the winds to change
> A realist adjusts the sails

Part 2: The Ideology of an atheist
As a non religious person, I often find my self questioning the nature of existence. I always come to the same conclusion... It is truly irrelevant. This belief is known as nihilism. As AI comes through to the foward dront of our attentions, seasoned shit-stirrers like Elon Musk have began to plant the seed of ideas. Ideas that we are simulations or simply a single, self contained simulated brain. This causes many people to have deep thoughts and often get tripped out or worried about the prospects of living in a fake existence. To be clear, I believe that it is likely that we are a simulations, and to be honest, I couldn't care less. Who cares why we are here. So many wars have been fought over this basic questions. Religious orders that supposedly bring peace fight over the trivial details of creationism whilsts others freak out at our virtualised life. This is completely ridiculous. After all, what point is there in thinking about such things? Wew have no power over the answer and it might scare us if we ever truly find the answer. Who cares if there is god or no god? Who cares if we are in a simulations? It doesn't change anything. No matter what the true nature of existence is, we still live in our world. We still live lives. Still feel pain. Still love. What difference does it make if we are indeed in a computer... We can still continue to be content. Too much time is wasted discussing what ifs, instead of living in today. Life is enriched by experiences and friendships. Fightning over the immutable reality will not help anyone. If we think this way, it is easy to see that nothing truly matters. You don't matter, I don't matter. On a macro level nothing matters. Yet that makes it so much more rich for us. If nothing matters you shouldn't worry about trivial things, Live your life. It is truly amazing that we exist. Our existence does not need to have meaning, it needs to be enjoyed. 

When weighing these ideas up in my head I came to a conlcusion. I have an optimistic attitude towards the truly meaninglessness of life. But being a realist I do not mean life is meaningless in an emotional sense, but more that it just logically doen't matter.

I'm sick of identity politics. I'm sick of how polarising everyone has to be. People take eveything the extemes. Movies are never 'Meh', they only come in 'great' and 'terrible'. I want a world where people seek happiness with themselves, not some bullshit ideology founded in materialistic understanding. Don't let the minutiae weigh on you. Be the optimistic nihilist we all need to be. Embrace it.

##### Date: 3/11/18
#### It all fades to black
The little light cast by the torches flickers against the cobbled walls. For how long I've been here I do not know. I sit up and am painfully reminded of the shackles that have me bound. I don't know what is real anymore. I float in and out of dreams, casting a distorted reality over my existence. Is this the dream? I do not know. Sometimes I wake to screams, maybe they're mine. I try to hold on to myself but I'm just met with emptiness. I try to hold... hold on. The man appears at the end of the room. He moves towards me, and then, it all fades to black.

##### Date: 3/11/18
#### The USNS Glomar
> I can neither confirm nor deny the alleged…

If you’ve ever watched popular media or seen a spy film, chances are you’ve heard this phrase. But where does it come from, when was it first use. Well, surprisingly, the answer is rather interesting.

The year is 1970 and the two world super powers have been locked in their cold war for over a decade. Tensions are high and both the Russian and American intelligence agencies are desperate for any little bit of information they can find on the opposition.

On the 8th of March the CIA receive news: The Russians had lost a submarine not to far from the west coast of America. The sub in question was the Russian submarine K-129, a Golf-II class ballistic missile sub developed by the USSR in the 1950’s. Just under 100m in length it had capacity for 6 crew members and was intended for use launching long ranged missiles. This was a crucial opportunity for the CIA, as the lost sub could potentially contain launch codes and military secrets of the Russians, which if recovered, would give the US a huge edge.

The CIA immediately began planning a mission to recover the K-129. There was just one problem: The prospective treasure trove was 4.8 kilometers below sea level.

The Plan
Several ideas of varying credibility were suggested in answer to the problem at hand. One, to attach giant balloons and float the sub to the surface, another, to invest $5 Billion in building a giant fuck off claw and attaching it to a boat. Amazingly, they chose the latter, and even more amazingly… It worked… kinda.

The CIA found an old military boat named the ‘USNS Glomar’ (pictured above) and started to redevelop it, this time with a large claw included. The Glomar was redesigned to have a hatch in the bottom of it, reminiscent of Thunderbird 2. This hatch would open to allow a claw to be released and lowered 4 km to the sea floor. The idea was to then latch onto the k-129 and raise it back to the surface.

Now with a mutant boat in-hand, the CIA had just one last thing to do. They didn’t want the Russian’s to know that they had found the sub, which meant they needed a cover story. And if you thought a giant claw wasn’t dumb enough, wait till you hear this… Their cover story was that billionaire Howard Hughes had developed a sudden interest in manganese nodule mining. With their totally bullet proof plan and a solid story that no person could possibly question, the CIA went out and attempted the recovery (more on that later).

Unsurprisingly the cover story didn’t sit well with the media, and they became suspect. As time went on, the press got more and impatient with CIA, requesting to be told what really happened in the North Pacific (After all its pretty obvious somethings going on when you deploy a huge-ass naval boat to the middle of no where). Eventually some journalists began submitting FOIA requests (Which legally required the CIA to respond with a truthful answer) to the CIA, which put them in a very awkward position. If the CIA told the press what really happened, the Russians would know they had tried to recover the sub (which would kill their advantage), however if they didn’t comply, they’d be breaking the law. The task of resolving this issue fell on the shoulders on one man. “Walt Logan” as he is now identified, was a junior security officer at the CIA during this period. Given this challenge, he came up with a surprisingly clever answer. He realised that the FOIA laws simply require a “truthful” and “accurate” response that did not misconstrue the situation. This meant that providing you didn’t lie about the situation, you could say whatever you liked. It did not mean you had to give the full answer. Armed with the genius loophole, Walt crafted a statement:

We [The CIA] can neither confirm nor deny the existence of the information requested, however if the information were to exist, it would be subject to classification and could not be disclosed
This was brilliant as it perfectly fulfilled the requirements of the FOIA request whilst simultaneously revealing nothing. It was so good in fact that it became the standard response from the CIA when asked any question. It became known internally as the ‘Glomar response’ as in the “USNS Glomar”, the ship with which the CIA had attached the claw.

About that….

The CIA actually did manage to raise the sub a significant portion of the way to the surface, about 90%, before it half of it snapped off and sunk back to the bottom where it still remains. After 4 years of planning and development and over $6 Billion total in costs, all that the CIA had was half of an empty submarine and a few corpses (of the K-129 crew).

